---
title: "Welcome to my site!"
date: 2024-03-27
tags: personal

image: /assets/images/posts/2024-03-27_Cover.jpg
banner: /assets/images/posts/2024-03-27_Banner.png

excerpt: "A quick look at what my plans are for this site, what I hope to achieve with it and why I set out on this journey in the first place!"

# Feed parameters
description: "A quick look at what my plans are for this site, what I hope to achieve with it and why I set out on this journey in the first place!"
---

Hello and welcome to my personal site! ^_^

## Who are you?

I'm Matteo Mangioni, a 22 years-old student of Computer Science with the aspiration of one day becoming a fully fledged **video game designer**.
Game design has been my passion for the last couple of years and I've come to the realization that I truly want to create wonderful experiences for others to enjoy: I believe games as a medium have a ton of untapped potential, and even though it sounds silly I really think they have the ability to change worldviews and make people's lives better.

To achieve this dream of mine I'm currently studying *Video Game Design & Development* at the University of Milan, and so far I've found I really love the subject.
In the last years I've also explored much more my love for board games and role playing games, taking time each week to play something around a table with my friends: modern board games have become so clever with their design and they really are a subject worth studying.

{% include responsive_image.html path="assets/images/posts/2024-03-27_Oath.jpeg" alt="Photo of me playing Oath by Cole Wehrle with my friends" caption="Me playing the fantastic 'Oath' by Cole Wehrle with my equally fantastic friends!" %}

## What is this?

As I said before, this is **my personal blog**!
I decided to open this site as my new year's resolution: I intended to get back into writing and I've always wanted a place where I could freely speak my mind on the games I play as well as post my progress on my game dev journey, so a personal blog seemed like the right choice.
Also, as you may have noticed, this site has a [games](/games.html) section: acting as a personal portfolio, it will house the small games I'll either design or develop, usually in the context of game jams.

I'm a bit of a perfectionist though, so obviously I couldn't just grab a blog template and run with it: nooo, I had to physically code almost everything myself, which is why we're well into March as I'm writing this first article!
It was a great exercise though, and one that is not finished yet: you can expect radical changes in the site in the upcoming months, especially in the aesthetic of it since I really have zero artistic sense and will change stuff in response to feedback from people I trust way more than myself with it. ^_^'

{% include responsive_image.html path="assets/images/posts/2024-03-27_Code.jpg" alt="Screenshot of my code organization" caption="Of course we have a 'my' version of each single Jekyll layout, are you crazy?!" %}

## What now?

Getting back on track, for the time being my immediate plans are to write and publish an article on two of my most beloved games of all time: [Outer Wilds](https://www.mobiusdigitalgames.com/outer-wilds.html) by Mobious Digital, an incredibile and eye-opening space adventure that convinced me of my choice of becoming a game designer, and [Disco Elysium](https://discoelysium.com/) by ZA/UM, an equally amazing experience with storytelling so powerful it genuinely shook me to my core.
I hope these pieces don't take too much to write but do not expect them very soon either, especially the Disco Elysium one since I intend to play a second time before writing.

{% include responsive_image.html path="assets/images/posts/2024-03-27_OuterWilds.jpg" alt="Outer wilds banner" caption="I mean, come on. How can this not move you?" %}

Regarding proper game design and development, I intend to partecipate in a game jam relatively soon, or at least once I can easily take a weekend off from university work.
I've also just started reading Brenda Brathwaite and Ian Schreiber's [Challenges for Game Designers](https://app.thestorygraph.com/books/555fee3b-213d-4ef6-a83e-341796a56a0a) and I'm planning to take on said challenges to improve my game design skills: since the book offers a very hand-on approach, if I manage to make a prototype I'm really proud of I might just post it on here!

However, these are my plans and now they're on the Internet for everyone to see!
I hope I find the time to do everything that I anticipated here and I hope you're along for the ride.
Thanks for reading this far: if you have suggestions or comments of any kind please feel free to leave them here or message me directly on social media! :)
